README.md, before:

# pool-maintenance-app

![Go CI](https://github.com/mgmacri/pool-maintenance-app/actions/workflows/go-ci.yml/badge.svg)

Pool Maintenance API — a Go project following Clean Architecture and DevOps best practices.


## Getting Started

### Run Locally (Go)
1. Ensure you have Go 1.25+ installed.
2. Clone the repository.
3. Install dependencies:
	```sh
	go mod tidy
	```
4. Run the application:
	```sh
	go run ./cmd/main.go
	```

### Run with Docker
1. Build the Docker image:
	```sh
	docker build -t pool-maintenance-api .
	```
2. Run the container:
	```sh
	docker run -p 8080:8080 pool-maintenance-api
	```
3. Access the health check endpoint:
	[http://localhost:8080/health](http://localhost:8080/health)



## Project Structure

- `cmd/` — Application entry point
- `internal/delivery/` — HTTP handlers (e.g., health check handler)
- `internal/` — Clean architecture layers (domain, usecase, repository)
- `pkg/` — Shared utilities
- `docs/` — Documentation


## Contributing

We follow an industry-standard Git workflow:

1. Create a new branch for each feature or fix (e.g., `feat/feature-name`, `ci/add-go-test-step`).
2. Make your changes and commit with clear, conventional messages.
3. Push your branch and open a Pull Request (PR) to `main`.
4. All PRs require at least one review and must pass CI checks before merging.
5. After merging, delete the feature branch if no longer needed.

## Running Tests

To run all tests locally:
```sh
go test ./...
```

## CI/CD

All pushes and PRs to `main` trigger the GitHub Actions pipeline, which builds, formats, vets, and tests the code.


## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---
For questions or contributions, open an issue or PR.

Commit message:

ci: add static analysis, coverage, and vulnerability scanning to CI
Enhanced GitHub Actions workflow with golangci-lint, code coverage, and Trivy scans. Updated README.md and CONTRIBUTING.md to document these CI features.

README.md, after:

# pool-maintenance-app

![Go CI](https://github.com/mgmacri/pool-maintenance-app/actions/workflows/go-ci.yml/badge.svg)

Pool Maintenance API — a Go project following Clean Architecture and DevOps best practices.


## Getting Started

### Run Locally (Go)
1. Ensure you have Go 1.25+ installed.
2. Clone the repository.
3. Install dependencies:
	```sh
	go mod tidy
	```
4. Run the application:
	```sh
	go run ./cmd/main.go
	```

### Run with Docker
1. Build the Docker image:
	```sh
	docker build -t pool-maintenance-api .
	```
2. Run the container:
	```sh
	docker run -p 8080:8080 pool-maintenance-api
	```
3. Access the health check endpoint:
	[http://localhost:8080/health](http://localhost:8080/health)



## Project Structure

- `cmd/` — Application entry point
- `internal/delivery/` — HTTP handlers (e.g., health check handler)
- `internal/` — Clean architecture layers (domain, usecase, repository)
- `pkg/` — Shared utilities
- `docs/` — Documentation


## Contributing

We follow an industry-standard Git workflow:

1. Create a new branch for each feature or fix (e.g., `feat/feature-name`, `ci/add-go-test-step`).
2. Make your changes and commit with clear, conventional messages.
3. Push your branch and open a Pull Request (PR) to `main`.
4. All PRs require at least one review and must pass CI checks before merging.
5. After merging, delete the feature branch if no longer needed.

## Running Tests

To run all tests locally:
```sh
go test ./...
```


## CI/CD

All pushes and PRs to `main` trigger the GitHub Actions pipeline, which:
- Builds, formats, vets, and tests the code
- Runs static analysis with golangci-lint
- Measures and uploads code coverage
- Builds and scans the Docker image for vulnerabilities (Trivy)
- Performs a health check endpoint smoke test


## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---
For questions or contributions, open an issue or PR.
